sid, july 29 Ay

1. Deep copy vs shallow copy in JavaScript

Answer: Yes, so if I have to define it in terms of a very naive words, I would say that shallow copy only copies the top level hierarchy. And deep copy is like making a copy of the entire object. So shallow copy is like pretty easy to achieve in JavaScript. You just have to use the spread operator, or you can use object or assign but if you have to go about deep copy, there are multiple ways to do it. If you want the shortest way, just use JSON dot Stringify and parse it. Otherwise, you would have to write a function where you recursively iterate each and every property and then create a deep copy of the entire object.

2. Shallow copy and deep copy used in React

Answer: Got it. So when you're using React, I think most of the developers or most of I would say use cases would be solved by using just a shallow copy. And even react relies on the concept of shallow copy itself. 

So, there is a concept called pure component or react dot memo in React which heavily relies on the concept of shallow copy. If I have to talk about deep copy, then there are very weird or a very unique use cases where you actually want to use the copy for example, you want to achieve perfect immutability of data. You don't you created a object and now you don't want to change it no matter what. And if you want to change it, you still want to persist the original version. And then create a new version out of it. That would be the only use case behind creating a deep copy here.

3. React Vs AngularJS

Answer: To be honest, I was working with Angular JS long time back. So AngularJS actually became really popular because of its two way data binding. That was something which we like as UI developers have never seen happening. It was very unique concept. But there were a lot of negatives with Angular that as the scale of the application would grow, your application becomes more and more slow. And the reason behind this was Angular was you know, focusing around updating the entire dome again and again. So a lot of people were doing a lot of research around, you know, finding solutions, and the best solution that came forward was react. What react does is say you have the virtual DOM concept, though virtual DOM is actually not related to react. So it's a unique concept, which is used by other frameworks like Vue js as well. But it does is it basically finds out the differences between virtual DOM and real DOM and only updates the required differences to the real DOM, not update the entire real DOM. So that actually brings a very big performance boost. Facebook used it in their application, then they made it open source and almost like all the applications today are, you know, either using React or they're trying to migrate to react for this exact performance boost. Yep. That's how I actually ended up using React and have been using it for almost five to six years now.

4. Which framework to choose for building the application?

Answer: To be honest, I think it depends on the use case. So what I would do is I would ask the client about the exact requirements and also both the scope of the project. So there is a possibility that what you're trying to build is not a very big project.
 It doesn't even need any framework, right? It's a very small application, which needs to be deployed and there are not going to be any further changes. Then there is no point of using a very big framework like AngularJS, or maybe Angular or view or react altogether. So it all comes down to the requirement. 
 And once you've got the requirement and you are like pretty sure that it's going to be a big application on scale. Then it comes down to the point that do you want to spend a lot of time you know, architecting, your application framework in the initial stage or not? Like if you have the bandwidth to do that, go with React, or maybe go with Vue js because they have virtual DOM powering them. And they're both great frameworks when it comes to user interactions. So like, consider application like Facebook.
  If somebody tries to actually build this exact same exact application using Angular JS, then it's going to be a really big blunder. But people use React, and it's working perfectly fine, even with a lot of user interactions. So it comes from the point that what sort of functionality that we're trying to achieve and how much bandwidth do we actually want to spend in setting up the entire project. The reason is that for the React, you have to do a lot of manual work in in the initial phase, but later on, you can actually get a lot of benefits out of it. 
  In case of Angular, everything is pre built there. is only one command that you run and the entire project gets set up. So Angular community have built a tool called ng CLI, you use it and the entire project structure is set up for you beforehand. And like along with React, you use something like Redux which is a single point of contact for your entire application, which solves a lot of problem. So and again, very important point is it also comes down to the point that what framework your team is comfortable with. So say client comes to me and says, Hey, you have to build this entire feature within two weeks.
   I don't know how you do it. But just build it and it's very short deadline, but you have to do it. And if the team is not experienced in Angular, then there is no point of using Angular in this case, I have to go with React. So there are a lot of, you know, reasons behind picking a certain framework, majorly around the team expertise and also around what type of functionality that you're trying to achieve here.

   5. Drawbacks of AngularJS and it's comparison with Angular 2+

   Answer: I think it's very common mistake, which people do when they are not aware of the UI frameworks. The reason is, like pretty simple. I think one of the Google Developers built a framework called Angular JS. And he himself was not building that framework for large scale applications. He was just building it for a very small form that he was given as a task from his manager. And that framework became really popular because of the two way data binding and everybody in the world started using it. But then they realized there are a lot of performance issues. That's Angular JS, and also known as angular one point x. Then what happened is people took the concepts that were inside the Angular framework, the Angular JS framework. A lot of good things were there. But again, there were a lot of bad things as well, a lot of you know, negative points for the entire framework. So the good points were picked, and the entire framework was rewritten by a few developers, and they published it and after that, Microsoft started supporting that project. That was Angular. And it was a complete rewrite of the Angular JS framework. And it has nothing to do with the Angular JS framework. So Angular JS is angular one and is not even like supported anymore. Even if you go to Angular one documentation, you would see that there is no new development happening over there. And on the Angular side, we started with Angular two long time back then angular 345 came, and it has been a very long journey. As of now we're using Angular 11, which is the latest version. And to be honest, both frameworks cannot use any code, they cannot share any code between each other. So if you have written some logic, which is in AngularJS, there is probably no way to migrate that very easily to Angular, you would have to rewrite most of the logic yourself. So I think that that is one of the reasons that person said this.

   6. Importance of framework? 

   Answer:  I've worked with a lot of good developers, who are you who are very passionate about making web faster? So I would say, I think this is something which my last mentor used to tell me that frameworks are just a way to achieve, you know, really good user experience. It's not about you choosing the best framework, or because you don't actually need the best framework or the best code. You just need to provide a really good user experiences. So if you're able to do that, everything else will fall in place. So if you're trying to build an application, and if you're able to provide the user experience what the user needs, I think you're good to go. Doesn't matter if you're using Angular doesn't matter if you're using react if the end user is happy. Everything will work. Fine.

   7. Working in teams?

   Answer:  I think like it at the end of the day, it's all about inspiring your team to achieve excellence. And if you're able to do that, I think it everything will work just fine. When you're like when you're working in a team, it's obvious that you're not working with everybody who's on the same level different people have their different learning curves. It's all about giving them their personal space. Where they can actually learn what you're trying to, you know, pass your knowledge around, and at the same time helping the team members as much as possible so that they're able to grow in their own pace. I have worked with, you know, certain members in the past we are team members in the past where there is a lot of work pressure and there is not enough time for everybody to learn new things. So maybe you know, a new technology comes forward and you have a very sharp deadline. Not everybody would be able to pick up that you know, new skill very fast and be able to deliver and the only way is you know, helping your team members as much as possible so that they have enough resources to gain expertise around the work that they want to do. And if you're able to do that, if you are able to help your team members in that way, at the end of the day, it's you who get to learn a lot. So as a senior dev what have done is I've worked with a lot of junior developers I've mentored a lot of people here and I have realized that my skills when it comes to stakeholder management, my skills when it comes to leading a team, and also the skill in terms of technical expertise has you know excelled a lot because it was not just my learning I got a chance to learn from them as well. And it's like as in when you help your team members grow as much as possible it, you know, ends up your growth as well. So that's my motivation around you know, helping my team members and that's how I deal with my team members growing as a single unit.

   8. Motivational story of a junior developer

   Answer:  So I can actually recall one of the instances which happened recently, so we have this internship program and we hired an intern who was working with us on certain small tasks, and I could actually feel that there was a lot of potential when we hired that person. The only reason was that he had the skills that were required and he seemed to have a very analytical mind, but because of the type of tasks that he was getting, there was, you know, very less motivation that I could see in him. Probably because he sort of felt that he did not want to do very small tasks, or maybe he wanted to work on a bigger feature altogether. I could feel the hesitation and I could feel him not putting in a lot of 100% you know, mindset behind every single thing. I think the solution which I reached out towards that, probably that person had like I had, like very clear one on one with him to make him understand that it's not about taking the 100 step in one go. If you want to reach there, you have to take small baby steps to reach there. And if you're able to achieve these smaller tasks on a faster pace, and if everybody in the team realizes is that you are able to take more and more responsibility, then you will be awarded with certain type of you know, tasks with in the future which will help you grow as a you know, engineering leader in coming years. And he I just gave him a very small plan very clear cut idea. Around if you say if you deliver these seven to eight things in the next two weeks or three weeks, you can yourself see a lot of changes coming in other team members when they look at you and when they expect something from you or in terms of the type of responsibilities they would be willing to give you. You would see a very big change deal. And I was able to help that person, you know, achieve every single milestone that he set for the next two to three weeks. And after that, when the product meeting actually happened during the sprint planning. The manager and the product manager actually agreed that we both can actually work on a really big story. And I gave him the lead on that particular user story that he can take full responsibility of it at any point of time. If he gets stuck, he can reach out to me, but this is his task, his user story and he can lead it from the front and I could see that motivation coming you know, in him at a later stage when he realized that yes, this was the right way to approach this problem. If you want to make a bigger impact, then you have to learn to make smaller impacts in the first place. So I think that actually is one of the most inspirational stories that I have had like experiences that I've had recently

   9. My future aspirations

   Answer: I think I have been putting in a lot of effort to learn more and more around the cloud integrations that any project can have. So this is my inspiration to actually become architect in coming years. And I have been putting in a lot of effort on that front to learn things end to end. And I think this is one of the things which inspire me to be a good engineer every single day and that is when you when you mentioned in the beginning of this call that I will get a chance to work with the architect and it would be a really good mentoring stage for me, where I could get a lot to learn from him. I think that was really a big motivation for me for this role because that's what I inspire to do as well. And I think as of today, I know that UI is like pretty much in my control. I you know, I sort of think that I am an expert on UI. But when it comes to understanding things end to end taking the entire responsibility of the application being a single point of contact for the entire project. I think there is still a scope to learn in that direction. And I think that is something which is still one of my goals which I intend to achieve in coming in coming years.

   10. Where do you see yourself 5 years sown the line?

   Answer: I think for next two years, I would like to, you know, lead or maybe work with a very strong set of engineers and, you know, help them on the architecture front, probably four or five years old. I would say that I want to become an architect, and single handedly, you know, deliver projects end to end and I think in terms of you know, handling end to end migrations, you know, architecting end to end projects, not just focusing on you know, providing just the best user experience but also on the security front on the performance front. These are some things which I want to excel at, and five years down the line. I think I would also want to look myself being an expert on the cloud front as well. So that is another gray area for me, as of now, but I still want to make sure that this is something which I excel at in coming years. So five years down the line. I think these are two goals. Which I want to achieve no matter what.

   11. Do you have a mentor? Do you know such a guy?

   Answer: Well, yes, so in our current organization as well, there is a person who is you know, sort of working with multiple teams here. And the best part is best part of working with that person is that he's able to, you know, sort of manage multiple teams and what's going on in different teams, not just by changing the code directly but by delegating responsibilities to the actual senior developers. And when you provide as a senior dev for me when I'm provided with a bunch of responsibilities for my project, and I have like, you know, very clear directions around where the entire organization is moving in terms of architecture in terms of the projects are in terms of the code practices. I think that's the most useful thing for me. So to be very honest, he solves most of the things for me upfront, like 80% of the things are very, very much solved by him. Like because he turns those one single statements into a very big paragraphs by providing a very big explanation to me around what needs to be achieved and what would be the best solution around it. And for us developers, I think it becomes really easy implementing those solutions. And at the same time, I'm able to understand his thought process as well because there are a lot of constructive discussions that we have with him from time to time, and we get to understand the reasoning behind taking a certain approach or with the other one. Should 


   12. 